Source: file: 2025-07-20_human-in-an-ai-age-grace.txt

Content:
Title: Human in an AI Age: Grace
Date: Sun, 20 Jul 2025 12:59:41 GMT
Source: https://rishad.substack.com/p/human-in-an-ai-age-grace
Type: Substack Blog Post

This is the third of a series on Human in an AI Age.The first post Roots and Wings reminded us that humans are a unique combination of memories and dreams, of what we were and what we are becoming. Roots and Wings is about our distinct journeys that define our humanity. The post illustrated how the roots and wings approach can help us connect and resonate in an AI age.The second post Voices reflected on the combination of creative expression, taste, curation, connection and inspiration that is each persons unique voice which will keep us distinct and adding value in an AI age. Voice is about the idiosyncrasies that make us. The post suggested ways we architect, hone and sculpt our voice.This third post builds on our state of unique becoming ( roots and wings), and what makes us distinct (voice) to introduce the concept of a way of being that is uniquely human: Grace.Grace.Think of the people we admire, respect and aspire to emulate.Initially it may be the rich, the successful, the uniquely talented, the beautiful, the brilliant and the powerful.Money has declining returns beyond a certain point of accumulation. Success comes and goes. Talent may shrivel. Beauty withers. Power ebbs. Time laughs and overcomes all.Looking for contentment and freedom we often find people of grace.While grace is often linked to the divine and is incorporated into many of the great religions it is not limited to these spheres.A person of grace tends to combine the elements of dignity, humility and generosity.Dignity.Dignity is the right of a person to be valued and respected for their own sake, and to be treated ethically. It is of significance in morality, ethics, law and politics as an extension of the Enlightenment-era concepts of inherent, inalienable rights. The term may also be used to describe personal conduct, as in "behaving with dignity" (Wikipedia)The Dignified are not just graceful in  bearing but treat everyone with dignity. They understand the importance of of being respectful of what has gone before and tradition even when challenging the status quo.These individuals do not look down on others and are aware that those in need or on the outside could very well be themselves under different circumstances or on another day. They treat others as humans with great potential that are working to overcome  confusion and complications. To be human is to recognize the dignity of every human without the badges of power, money and fame. To respect the non-quantitative,  to give weight to what does not compute, to bet on what might be versus what there is.  AI might struggle to be dignified.Humility.To be humble is to not lose one's sense of perspective. To understand that achievement while significant is often due to a combination of many factors including luck, opportunity, inheritance, and the specific time and not just one's skill and hard work.To not gloat in victory but to be circumspect and keep a sense of decorum.To remember the line from the great 17th Century poet John Donne:"never send to know for whom the bell tolls; it tolls for thee"  We are all part of the same human experience and often the same industry and if too many competitors are going under it cannot behoove well for our own future or future of our industry. AI may not understand humility given it lives forever and expands its capabilities exponentially.Generosity.In the world of business and technology it is important to monetize, gain market share and scale. To optimize for efficiency and effectiveness. To battle and to win.But often a zero sum game shrinks everybody.Abundance may also be a part of the  approach.A CEO shared a story about how a poor family of immigrants stopped to help someone who had a flat tire in bad weather. After the tire was changed, the individual offered money to the family. They turned it down saying "Today it was you. Tomorrow it might be us."Sooner or later, everybody finds themselves needing help and depending on acts of generosity. It might be some form of aid, guidance, a person to talk to who will listen, a leg-up or sometimes gently delivered difficult to hear advice.By being there and helping when someone is in need ensures good "Karma."If what goes around comes around it may make sense to send good stuff people's way.Generosity makes for a better life for not just the recipient but also to the giver.If strategy is future competitive advantage, generosity is smart for individual or company strategies.Generosity builds good will which is both an asset and a moat.It is an asset in that it can be tapped in the future.It is a moat because when an individual or a company has been generous in times of trouble their employee or customer are less likely to switch to a different firm for a lower price or higher pay.Generosity is also a key differentiator in that usually when a person or firm needs help there are few people willing to help someone out of power or in trouble. Those individuals and brands who do help stand out and their showing up and helping when others are not burns into the emotional and mental memory of the recipient.Emotional connections are harder to sever or replace than financial connections.AI may not feel that.AI is still under-hyped. It is changing the world and  unleashing great wealth, scientific breakthroughs and opportunities as well as great shifts and challenges. It is critical to embrace and learn AI. But it is how we complement and augment AI  and integrate it with  human purpose and meanign is where the magic will lie.Recognizing roots and wings, voice and grace is one way we might thrive as Humans in an Age of AI. And here is an opportunity to provide dignity and be generous from someone who is as graceful as they come: A note from Jack Klues Retired CEO of Publicis Media and VP of Off the Street Board.You're invited: Swing For the Kids - A Day of Fun, Impact and Sisterhood25 years ago, we dreamed up a women-only charity golf outing to primarily benefit the girls programming of the Off The Street Club (OTSC.) For those not familiar, for the last 125 years, the Club is a "safe haven" - allowing kids who live in Chicago's highly dangerous West Side to be kids.The event is called Swing For the Kids and has grown into what we believe is the largest and longest running women's charity golf AND pickleball event in the country.More than just a day of sport, Swing For The Kids is a powerful gathering of professional women from across Chicago's Advertising, Media, Financial, and Corporate worlds. Entry Level to C Suite Officers from companies like Publicis Groupe, Netflix, Google, NBC Universal, Wrigley, and JP Morgan Chase. Over 250 participants coming together to make a real difference in these kids' lives.As former Kraft CEO and current OTSC Board President, Betsy Holden, says it's "an amazing, inspirational day of sisterhood."Whether you are golfing, playing pickleball, or just soaking up the energy, food and prizes, you will leave with more than you came for: new connections, memorable stories, and the satisfaction of supporting kids who really need it and are worth it.Tell your friends. Ask your employer. We want and need you to join us.Experience the magic that happens at Swing.&#9679; Monday, September 8&#9679; Twin Orchard Country Club in Long Grove, Illinois&#9679; Call 312-315-2917 or visit otscswing.com to learn more or sign-upPhotography by Rishad Tobaccowala.Subscribe nowShare

---
Source: Rishad Tobaccowala's Substack - "The Future Does Not Fit In The Containers Of The Past"
URL: https://rishad.substack.com/p/human-in-an-ai-age-grace
